Hi, this is Scott. I
really appreciate our sponsors because
they make the show possible.
Today's show is sponsored by
developer express, become a UI
superhero with dev express controls
and libraries. Deliver elegant.net solutions
that address customer needs today
by leveraging your existing knowledge,
you can build next generation
touch enabled solutions for tomorrow,
you can download your free
30 day trial@dxdothanselminutes.com. That's dx.hanselminutes.com.
Hi, this is Scott Hanselman.
This is another episode of
Hanselminutes today. I've got a
special show for you. I've
got Jessica Rose, who's the host
of the pursuit podcast and
a tech education activist. And
we're trying something new. Jessica
had a great idea that
we would do a podcasting
crossover show. Thanks for having
that idea and for including,
Oh, I was actually pretty
sure it was your idea,
but if we just want
to go back and forth
and compliment each other, it'll
be different. You should spend
at least 20, 30 minutes
compliment each other. Yeah. So
somehow we spontaneously simultaneously had
this idea and you tweeted
that we would ask people
for what the worst tech
industry advice that they'd ever
received was. And people got
some really horrible advice. People
are telling tech workers, just
awful things. It's almost like
almost everyone gives that advice.
Yeah. And the funny thing
about advice is that the
greatest advice I ever received
was that you don't need
to take advice. Oh, I
always preface when I give
someone advice so well, before
I tell you this, keep
in mind that everybody's just
a big bundle of biases.
And I really think that
when you give someone advice,
most people are just, they're
not telling you what you
should do. They're telling you
what they wish they would
do in the same situation
Or even worse, what they
wish they would have done
in the past. Oh, so
much. All of my advice
is just like, no, go
move to a new country,
start over. Yes. That's interesting.
I'm starting to find, and
I'm not even that old,
but I'm finding my advice
is becoming old man advice,
which is like, Oh, well,
young person. Let me tell
you the vast, the vast
amount of my experience, which
is really not that much
because there's so many people
that have 20, 30 years
more than I do. And
it doesn't seem to me
that being old necessarily means
being qualified. It just means
old. I think that you're
maybe in the minority of
people who like to give
advice, if you're, if you're
smart enough not to connect
experience well, length of time
on the world, in the
world with experience and wisdom.
Yeah. Well, I think that
I, I may have incorrectly
believed that there was a
direct correlation, but I started
interacting with people at a
few jobs ago where they
had 20 years experience, but
then I figured out it
was the same year, 20
times. That's absolutely something I'm
going to steal and drop
into a conversation, sort of
at the pub as though
I thought of that myself.
Don't you find that to
be the case though, that,
I mean, it really is
about growth mindset. I think
that might be really true.
I I'm always a little
bit more comfortable critique criticizing
myself than other people. So
if I was looking back
at my experience and be
like, well, I've got 30
mumble mumble years, but there's
a big chunk of my
twenties. It doesn't count for
much. Oh, interesting. And why
would you dismiss that part
of your career? Was it
because you weren't, you know,
your brainstem wasn't attached? That's
my excuse? Well, it's difficult
because a lot of the
things I was doing at
the time I was working
in education, I was working
in a different country and
culture. Some of that was
really valuable, but sort of
the going to work part,
like being in an office
when I was working in
an office overseas, wasn't especially
helpful. I don't feel like
I got a lot of
that. Hmm. That makes sense.
I didn't feel super amazing
about my work experiences before
my thirties, because I didn't
feel like I was emotionally
engaged in the work as
much as maybe I could
have been. Oh, that's really
interesting as well. I also
think maybe I'm being a
bit unkind to twenty-something Jess.
I wonder whether or not
I was just a bit
of a jerk in my
early twenties and wasn't that
helpful? Well, I've met a
lot of very nice people
in their twenties, but I
would have to admit as
well that I was not
super awesome until I was
probably in my mid thirties.
But here we are to
do old people complaining about
young people. I think young
people do give great advice.
They give great advice now
because I think they were
paying attention more than perhaps
we were, I am consistently
impressed and hopeful when I
talk to the younguns. So
we asked folks online to
give us their worst advice.
And some of them were
kind enough to send in
actual audio files. So we've
got some of those audio
files that we'll play. And
then what we're going to
do is a two part
show. So sometimes people complain
that my show is too
short. They say 30 minutes.
Isn't long enough. So this
is part one. And then
we're going to have you
go over to pursuit.tech. HDDP
whack whack pursuit dot T
E C H, and listen
to part two on Jessica's
podcast, which is I think
a great idea. And I'm
going to be airing this
tomorrow. So you've got a
whole day to wait until
you get more delicious. Yeah,
absolutely. So we have folks
from Twitter and the internets
who have made us wave
files and a flat files
of their bad advice. And
we'll play a few on
my show and we'll play
a few on your show,
your show, and we will
discuss them. So I've got
a couple of different folks
here that responded and we
thank them very much for
letting us use their, their
audio files. The first one
I've got here was from
Don  and I'm going
to play that right now.
If that's okay. Industry advice
I've received was people seem
to believe what you tell
them. You should work in
sales. This was after a
project where we had done
some deep user research and
produced a supporting interactive prototype
to prove a hypothesis. Okay.
So that was not very
kind or helpful advice. What
did you think about that?
Am I allowed to swear?
I would rather that you
not work blue. Oh my,
you would believe the actual
goal to be like, Oh,
hi, Don, Don, completely ignoring
the hard work she put
in all of her research.
The fact that she's a
skilled professional, be like, Oh
wow. Peop people seem to
believe what you're saying. Yeah.
I've actually had another person
at th that I worked
with at Microsoft. Someone said
that people believe what you
say, and you look like
a sales person and there
are you wearing like a
polo. It wasn't me. But
it was an actually a
very, a very stylist, young,
new Yorker who, who is
into fashion and also a
talented technologist. And apparently looking
put together or looking in
some way competent, you know,
from a fashion perspective immediately
means that you should be
in sales, which I think
is really bad advice. Was
this another female technologist? She
did happen to be a
female technologist. I it's interesting
New York, you know, you've probably,
you spent some time in
New York as I have. It
has more fashionable people in
my experience than the West
coast does particularly Manhattan proper.
And there seems to be
a uniform. You know, the
people that I worked with
in New York who wore suits,
if they were men, they
were in finance. And, but
here's a technologist who is
fashionable, a fashionable young woman
and a programmer. They put
her right into a box.
Yeah. I found that a
couple of times at conferences.
So I like to, I've
got the job I want.
So I don't dress for
the job I want, but
I dress for, if someone's
taking my picture that I
don't feel bad about it
in five years, That's actually
very good advice. But a
lot of times, if I
put on a very nice
dress at an event, I've
had people come up and
be like, Oh, hi, where's
your booth? Where can I
do? It's like, no, no.
So I wonder if there's
not sort of some kind
of desire. It'd be like,
Oh, you're dressed really, really
well. Miss clearly you're in
sales or in some kind
of nontechnical role. Cause you're
not slouchy enough. I'm trying
to remember the last time
I went to a conference
and saw a, a man
dressed full on suit and
tie, like going to a
wedding type level of, or
you know, going to a
fashion show and it's been
some time, but I would
admit that I just would
think that they were a
fashionable young young man. I
wouldn't necessarily assume that they
were sales. But if I
saw a fashionable young woman,
I might internally think marketing,
which is, which is my
own personal flaw. I would
think, I think that might,
I don't want to explain
what happened in Dawn's case
because really it's just white
hot rage, but how she
managed to hear this and
I assume respond politely and
not punch someone in the
face. Like, wow, not only
accomplished and skilled. And for
some reason people believe her,
but also the incredible restraint.
I think that having restraint
though, is a big part
of being a technologist at
this point, right? There's so
many people that are jockeying
for position that are assuming
that you either know, or
don't know what you're talking
about. There's a, it feels
like interactions in tech for
all. People are just a
thumb war of who's on
top, as we struggle to
communicate effectively with each other
and just how exhausting it
is exhausting. And I would
say, even, even though there's
a lot of discussion around,
you know, the term mansplaining
and how men interact with
women, there is difficult interactions
with all kinds of personalities,
older man to younger man,
a technical person to non
technical person or vice president,
or, you know, super high
up nontechnical person who controls
your job. It seems like
communication is as much what
technology is about as it
is about writing the code.
Right. I'm super into this
Congress. Not that I wasn't
before, but super into this
conversation before I got into
tech, I was a teacher,
but I was a language
teacher in linguist. So yeah,
positional language, the way we
communicate with each other and
when it is either hierarchical
or largely based on gender
or position or race, it's
also interesting and also messy.
Yeah. Without diving deeper into
it. It's complicated discourse analysis
is something I think technologists
would be really into. And
so sort of looking at
conversations and looking at language
as though it's a pile
of data to pick apart.
It's really fun. Well, if
you don't mind, let's dive
a little bit into that
because I think that's valuable.
There might be someone who
is listening to this show
who might, let's just say
dismiss or downplay or minimize
what Don felt and say,
Oh, well that was just
a compliment. Don could simply
say, Oh, well thank you.
But I'm not in sales.
I'm a technologist. And I
liked my job, no disrespect
to salespeople and then move
on. How do we, you
know, why do some people
take things like that and
say, Oh, I'm going to
be filled with white hot
rage while someone else might
say, Oh, you know, well,
that's, that's your, that's your
opinion. Thank you. But no,
thank you. So I think
the big one is just
the frequency with which get
those messages. So while it
might sound like a compliment,
like, Hey, wow, completely ignoring
the work you've put in
these people believe you like
first off. Why would that,
why would that be a
surprise? Why are you telling
me that? That's very strange,
Interesting. That's like, Oh, your
code compiled. Isn't that nice
for you? Well, good, good
job. You're you're, you've met
the baseline for competence, have
a cookie. And following that
up with, Hey, why don't
you work in this job?
Which while it's skilled has
a different skill set and
has, is often not given
the amount of respect and
which is a separate issue
and something I also think
needs to be looked at,
but it's not really given
the same amount of respect
or looked at the same
Mount with prestige as the
technical role. Don occupies. No,
that's another interest. That's an
interesting point. Let's pick that
apart for a second, because
like, there are those that
believe that the word politically
correct means to, you know,
to be overly, you know,
dancing around words. Like it
seems like, it seems like
I might be right now,
but it all other people
say being politically correct is
to simply be kind to
other humans and treat them
the way that they would
like to be treated. So
when you say that, my
first impression is like, well,
I don't want to downplay
sales because I know sales
is nothing that I could
do. Like I work with
salespeople that had that magic,
whatever that I did not
have and I do not
have, and I'll never understand
it. It is, it is
black magic as far as
I'm concerned, sales is. But
I can admit though, to
feeling that same way, that
if you tell someone who
is highly technical, that they
should be something that is
perceived as not highly technical,
they'll immediately kind of like
recoil and like, eh, no,
I, you know, it's like
saying to a, to a
surgeon, you know, you should
probably be the front desk
person that takes people's information
because you're so nice When
you were saying this. I
was actually thinking about a
dear friend of mine who
is an orthopedic surgeon. Oh
wow. And she's tiny and
cute and just an absolute
joy and smarter than definitely
smarter than me. I don't
want to say smarter than
most people. I know, but
she's an orthopedic surgeon, which
has lots of I'm going
to get this wrong, but
clenching together, big boats. Yeah.
I mean, I think it's
joints and bits right. Of
hips apparently like, please, please
salt your salt, your driveways.
But because she's, she's warmed.
Well, I don't mean to
ascribe motives for some reason,
whatever reason, lots of times
on her way in and
out of work in medical
settings, people say, Oh wow.
Because she looks quite young
as well. Oh, you should
absolutely get into medicine. Oh,
have you thought of becoming
a nurse on a good
day? Be like, Oh, you'd
be such a great pediatrician.
Oh, well see the nurse
one I could see because
it says it's an implied,
it's kind of a diminutive,
but the be a pediatrician,
one that one kind of
gets into a gray area
where they're basically saying you're
so nice. Here's a place
where we need more nice
people. I wonder if that's
what they're saying though. I
think it's young lady. Oh
dear. You should ascribe to
a medical profession someday. What
about these two commonly accepted
paths? You seem like you
fit in here. Let's put
you someplace that I imagine
where you fit. Interesting. So
that brings up, I think
the root of this advice
and why we think that
was lousy advice is we
should avoid trying to put
people into a slot. We
should let people find their
own slot. Well, I think
that if I could, was
this a bit meta? If
I can give advice on
a show about giving advice,
mine to you, dear listener
would be that if you're
in a technical space, just
assume everyone there is technical.
Like sometimes you're going to
be wrong, but nobody's going
to get that grumpy about
it. That is fantastic advice
that mirrors some advice that
I recently gave someone at
a tech conference where I
said, assume that whoever you're
talking to at the booth
is the CTO until they
tell you that they're not
One thing I also really
enjoyed from teaching. So the
great thing about teaching is
you get a lot of
applicable skills to carry with
you. So in teaching you
get told again and again,
don't ask yes or no
questions to check for understanding,
because if I say it
to you like, Oh, here's
this thing, it does this.
It does that. Do you
understand 90% of the time
just out of social convention,
I'm gonna say yes. I
don't want to sound dumb.
Yes. I understand. Whereas if
you want to actually tack
for comprehension and especially if
you're talking to someone in
a technical space and you
don't know what they do,
you don't know their background.
Don't say, do you understand
this? Or, but actually ask,
so, Oh, Hey, do you
know what I'm working on
this new project? What kind
of experience do you have
with react? People might say
none, but that still lets
them opt in or out.
That is a really good
and very concrete. Something that
we can all apply like
today at work, we can
stop this podcast. And the
next time we have an
interaction with someone, do you
understand this? Yes or no
very bad, but to ask
for, I love that I'm
going to really put that
together. That's very helpful. Thank
you. Well, I've really enjoyed
it because a lot of
times I don't expect someone
has a lot of experience
with this or that. And
asking that question, like what
kind of experience you have
with front end web work,
unexpected people will just pop
out and say like, Oh,
I actually did these courses
or, well, you know, I
used to work as a
web dev back in the
day. Mm. Or of course
with the people on the
internet that you interact with,
you might just have them
say, Oh yeah, I invented
that. Yeah, that I am
the creator, But I think
we might have one or
two more clips. So folks
getting terrible advice. Yes. So
the next one is Haley
Anderson and thank you, Hailey,
for letting us use your
horrible industry advice. Let's see
what folks said to Haley
I'm Haley Anderson. And the
worst industry advice I got
was asked for a lower
salary from at least three
different career advisors and a
couple of recruiters each time
and still got that salary.
And later found out I
was underpaid, Asking for a
lower salary. I have heard
people give that advice before
and I've never quite understood
it. Why would you downplay
yourself? Are you trying not
to offend an organization? I,
I was absolutely baffled when
I heard this advice and
I don't know if there's
a wonder description for like
confused and angry that I
was that. And I do
a lot of one-on-one work
with people getting to technology
and junior technologists. And this
is advice. Tons of people
get, I feel like sometimes
when I was getting started,
people would tell me to
ask for a lower salary
so that less would be
expected of me, but it
still doesn't justify. Like I
know I still don't get
to the, I was going
to say in my experience,
I have found the less
people pay you the less
they respect your value. So
coming on board, when I
was freelancing, when I was
doing some consulting work, when
I low-balled a pitch, or
when I, when I delivered
a really, really modest quote,
I found that people were
less likely to pick it
up because it looked less
valuable. But also when they
did pick me, pick up
some work, that they were
a lot less likely to
take on my advice and
getting paid a little bit
more, which is just glorious
for lots of reasons. I
could say to someone, well,
you're paying me this amount
of money for this advice.
You don't have to take
it, but that's some money.
Do you believe that it's
true. That if someone comes
in at a certain level,
at a job at a
technical job, that it makes
it that much harder for
them to get like a
correction. Like if they start
behind, they'll always be behind.
I think it depends on
their comfort with lying and,
and people in this situation
should absolutely be willing and
able to lie real God
yet. Lie about your salaries.
The advice is this good
advice or not? How do
I feel about this advice
you're giving them? Well, I
usually don't give this advice
on the air. Why should
we lie? And what do
you mean by you've been
chronically underpaid and someone comes
in and asks in a
new, in a new potential
role. Oh, what are you
getting paid? Don't directly lie.
Don't say I was making
60,000 a year. Let's say
euros, don't say, Oh, I
was making 60,000 euros. You
don't want to lie directly
that you can say like,
well, you know, for a
role like this, I'm looking
in the neighborhood of 65
to 70,000. Oh, I see.
So you're saying avoid that,
that direct. How much were
you making so that because
they are asking, how much
were you making so that
they can pay you the
same amount or slightly, slightly
more? Yeah. I, I would
say that if they press
you use your good judgment,
but still sometimes lie, the
things I'm comfortable with people
lying about their salary history,
feel free to inflate that
I think almost everyone does.
If you take time out
to have a kid or
for family reasons, make sure
you're doing a little bit
of paid or unpaid contract
work around that. And then
just go ahead and say,
I took some time off
to, to do some freelance
work. I gently encourage people
to lie when they want
to, to stretch the truth,
if there's a social cost.
So if you've been traditionally
underpaid, especially from, if you're
from an underrepresented group broadcasting,
I was making this much.
Here's how I was being
held back. Just encourages people
to, like you said, create
a cycle where they perpetuate
that. The, the one about
I took time off has,
is a definite challenge. I've
seen people take time off
to have kids. My wife
took time off to have
kids and paid the price
for that. And then if
one takes time off to,
for lack of a better
word, find themselves, that seems
to be, at least in
America found upon like taking
time off for a, what
I would call a mental
health break. Like I needed
six months off or whatever
in, in, in, in the
U S is very much
frowned upon and people will
think you're a foolish for
doing that. And then you'll
pay the price and you'll
never catch up. Well, the
cool thing is we have
tons and tons of data
around this, like folks who
do organizational studies, folks who
work in management studies. We
have a lot of data
about what taking time off
to have a kid or
to go back to school
or to write a book.
We know what kind of
costs these have when I
encourage people to stretch the
truth around that or to,
to make sure they're doing
a little bit of contracting
to say that instead of
I had a baby, I'm
really mostly concerned about women.
Who've taken time off for
family reasons. Cause they do
tend to get punished for
that quite a bit more.
Yeah. Well, my wife did
some volunteer work and the
intent here is to avoid
large gaps or large unexplainable
gaps where someone sees clearly
on your resume April, 2017 to
March, 2015, nothing. Yeah. And I
always try and remind people
that if you're doing unpaid
work, if you're volunteering, if
you're helping people with stuff,
if you're doing web design
for your friends, unpaid work
is still work. That is,
It was good advice. I
think that that is a
really good reminder. Even if
you're working on your church's
website, all of those things
can be expressed for lack
a better word, even spun
as work. Cause it was,
I say, lie. That sounds
very serious. I'd say go
ahead and put your best
foot forward and make sure
that yeah, well like lots
of times employers, aren't always
as direct and honest with
you as a potential applicant
or a potential employee. And
you kind of expect that
on some level, nobody's going
to say, Oh wow, we've
got a lot of financial
problems right now. So we're
really going to low ball
you on the salary. You
know, that one is, that
is so interesting. I had
someone reach out to me
recently because they were going
to take a job at
a large company. They had
10 years in the business
and they wanted the title
senior and the company was
giving them an offer that
was one notch below senior.
And that it was, they
took it as a kind
of a personal affront. And
in digging around, it turned
out that that was a
standard thing that that company
did to allow people to
hit the ground running. And
then they promote you to
senior within six months or
a year. But that wasn't
information that the person was
able to receive from the
recruiter that was inside industry
information, that they had to
go and dig out from
a person on the inside.
Had they not known that
they would have simply left
the, the offer and said,
Oh, well forget you people.
Maybe, maybe I'm a suspicious
old lady and a little
bit suspicious of companies where
they're like, Hey, come on
in on these terms. And
then, you know what? We
absolutely swear in six months
we will sort you out
and we'll do right by
you. Yeah. Yeah. Unless it's
on paper, it probably never
happened. Wouldn't you say, Get
everything in paper. And even
when you've got it in
paper, go in with some
gentle trepidation, coupled with your
hope By trepidation, you mean
a healthy dose of skepticism
and suspicion just to touch.
I think that's good advice.
So I'm hearing us say
that we want to help
people avoid getting into slots.
Whether that slot be like
Dawn, where someone in one
of them to be in
sales, even though that was
not appropriate or with someone
like Haley, someone was gently
nudging them towards a, a
lower paid job, maybe a
junior position. Well like don't
take advice from people who
can't recognize or don't value
your skillset with Don. The
only thing, the advice givers
heard, the only thing they
could process was wow. People
believe you. They weren't able
to see the full body
of her work, her knowledge
and her experience. And with
Hayley, they just could not
appropriately value her skills in
the workplace. Oh, just ask
for a bit less. It'll
be fine. Who do you
think we should ask advice
of? Because I feel like
sometimes if you had asked
advice of your family, they
are too close, but if
you ask advice of acquaintances
or God forbid the random
internet, not the internet, they're
too far, some, what is
the ideal sweet spot for
advice asking? So I always
like to ask, at least
three people hit something important
and I try and ask
people who have backgrounds somewhat
similar to mine if possible.
And this gets a lot
more difficult if you're from
a group traditionally underrepresented in
tech and doubly hard again,
if you're from one of
these groups and you're in
a really special niche, like
you might be the only
person very much like you
in this space. Yeah. That
is a very good point.
I think that if you
can find those people, you
should hold onto them and
that you should make them
a part of your street
team or your, your personal
board of directors. Yeah. And
if there's very few of
you in that space, supporting
each other is going to
be even more valuable. Definitely.
I wrote a blog post
a while back. I made
a website to support it
called life's board of directors.
And I commented how people
will take the time to
sit down and write a
business plan for their business
or their startup. But so
rarely do we sit down
and write a business plan
for ourselves and our personal
career and even less likely
are we to make a
board of directors to support
that, that venture. But if
you are a venture, why
shouldn't you have a board
of director of supporting you?
I think that's a really
like really, really lovely way
to look at it as
well. I always try and
remind people that when you're
asking for advice, make sure
that you have someone to
go to or make sure
you have perspectives outside your
company. And so when I
manage people, I, especially junior
people, I always like to
ask, okay, do you have
someone else, someone external to
the company? Who's not necessarily
a formal mentor, but someone
who could give you advice,
someone you can run things
past and nobody's completely disinterested,
but trying to find people
who have as much of
your best interest at heart.
Yeah. With as few conflict
as interests as possible is
always a nice idea. True.
Very true. So that is
going to be the end
of part, one of our
worst advice, a show series
we're going to then ask
you now tomorrow or today,
if it's, if it's the
future to go over to
pursuit.tech, P U R S
U I T dot T
C H and listen to
Jessica and I on part
two on the pursuit podcast.
Thanks so much for having
this idea, Jessica. Oh, thank
you so much for having
this idea. This has been
another episode of Hansel minutes
and we'll see you again
next week.